# Online Experiments Coding Challenge — The Subjectivity Lab

Here I describe 3 challenges for you to solve using HTML/CSS/JavaScript (not to be confused with Java—that's a completely different programming language!). They’re very close to what you will have to do in the lab on a day to day basis, if you’re going to lead your own projects. If you already know HTML/CSS/JavaScript, skip ahead to the next section.

I have found this the best way for one to learn HTML/CSS/JS, i.e. to learn by actually using it. There are courses and introductory books, but most of us learned how to use it by just using the help functions, online tutorials, figuring out what other people’s codes do, etc. So I suggest you try this route. You can ask friends or other lab members for the occasional odd technical questions, but you really should try to figure it out yourself. Taking courses is of course good too, they are more systematic and they can give you more theoretical knowledge about programming languages, which can be useful. That said, courses will teach you more than what you need for working in the lab (which is good, but time consuming) and they may not teach you everything you'll need (which requires that you figure things on your own anyway). But even if you take a course, or already have some experience in programming before, to run projects in the lab you need to complete these challenges first. 

## Prep work

HTML is the most basic building block of the Web. It defines the meaning and structure of web content. Other technologies besides HTML are generally used to describe a web page's appearance/presentation (CSS) or functionality/behavior (JavaScript). To code in HTML/CSS/JavaScript you'll need a code editor. There are many out there, and you should use the one that makes you feel more comfrotable. However, I think open-source editors with good GitHub integration that allows you to preview HTML/CSS/JavaScript code is what you need. [Atom](http://atom.io) and [Visual Studio Code](http://code.visualstudio.com) are good editors that meet these requirements (especially the first two). 

If this is your very first encounter with HTML/CSS/JS, you can start reading [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML) to familiarize yourself with these languages. Even though they are different languages, you'll need to integrate the three of them for making beautiful, functional, dynamic websites—which is basically what we use for running online experiments. There are (probably literally) a million tutorials out there that you can rely on (but do let me konw if you find one that you particularly like so that we can add it to our resources section). So, just pick one and start learning the basics of the syntax. It probably makes sense to start with HTML, then move onto CSS, and finally incorporate JS. 

If you want to get a sense of what a full experiment that we've used in the past, dive into the Examples folder. There's some source code for experiments that I (Jorge) have used in the past. The first thing you should know is that... I'm not a great programmer! I hope this is somewhat encouraging especially if you're just learning (and hopefully it's not to embarrassing if you're already an expert programer). I do think that the most important thing about code is that it works as it is intended (e.g. stimuli are presented correctly, data is saved adequately). Other things can be secondary to these. 

## Challenge 1: Design a functional website

This is a test
